After working as a bartender for nine years while doing some programming in my spare time I wanted to take it to the next level.
I had learned a lot through Google and some online courses, but learning didn't really go fast enough.
Furthermore, working and learning all by yourself is just a bit boring...
When I found Codaisseur I thought it would give me a nice slingshot in to the wonderful world of development.
And boy did it. Working in teams and learning a lot ridiculously quick. It was a blast.
But enough about me! Lets talk c0de!

We had an assignment to create a game using a React + Redux frontend, combined with a FeathersJS backend.
The awesome starter kit we used allowed us to relatively easily set up a game with realtime events communicating to all players.
It turned out pretty cool, but I had used a basic html canvas. And had not really touched on React and Redux that much.
Because I wanted to dive in to React + Redux some more I made GitView.

As many developers do, we use GitHub. Now GitHub is awesome.
It is an unmissable collaboration tool for coding projects.
What's also pretty cool is that you can follow users. just like you would on a social network.
And that works. Kind of...

[github image]

My problem with it is that it only displays big events, like when a user create a new repo (project) for example.
This wasn't really enough. I wanted to see more! Especially a better overview of commits (contributions to a project).
When was the latest commit made? By who? How many repos does he or she have? Etc.
GitHub is nice but it did not give me a nice overview of the data I wanted to see.
Luckily GitHub provides an API we can use to ask for the data we need and display it as we please.
There is a catch though. To make a lot of calls to the API we need to authenticate ourselves.
Also not a big problem! We can just use OAuth and use the well known 'login with ...' pattern.
Oh dear... It turned out that implementing OAuth with Feathers and React was a bit more difficult than I had expected.
For three days I struggled. I just could not get it to work. I kept hammering on it but I was getting nowhere.
Until someone said stop. Just stop. Let it rest. Go do something else and then come back to it.
That was a great tip. I left just left it and started to do some actual development, instead of configuring Feathers for OAuth.

